There are certain keys that allow
us to seek competitive differentiation,
which is ultimately the
axis of brand positioning.
At the end of the day you compete
against others and what you have
to have is the ability to have a hole
in the mind, which is where battles
are fought, in the mind of
that client you want to convince,
who there are ways to that differentiation.
One is, being the first, we
love the second, the third,
those who fight the leader, but in
the end the majority say, well
I the leader, because the leader
is sure that it is a good option.
Are you talking about timing or are
you talking about market share?
Be the first to the idea.
Kleenex was the example and left with
the generic.
Bitter Cash was the first and left
with the generic.
Then there will be others, but they
will have it much more complicated
because you were the first.
If you are not the first, at
least the first in the new category,
in a category that you invent
or that may make sense from
a market point of view.
The Power MBA is the first within
the category we have created.
Exactly, it's an example, it's a
niche strategy in the end, that generates
a new category that's interesting,
that's different and that's
relevant to a certain audience.
Wolf did it with the GTI, created a
category, but then Nissan came and
said, well, it's not all invented,
I'm going to invent the whole way.
And it turns out that this new category,
who is the market leader of that
new category?
Nissan, with its model that
probably have looked similar.
What you're telling me is very
interesting because it's not
so much, that is, we can think
this is too difficult, but it'
s not, because what you have
to think is, if I want to create
a powerful brand, why don't
I think of a category?
Why not try to create a category?
That maybe it is a niche category
and we can not aspire to create
a blue ocean, which is a
niche, but within that niche,
your brand is considered
the leader in that category.
That is.
More possibilities, the one that has it
all, the one that has the broadest range,
and that allows you to do it one
brand by sector.
It can be one of the IKEA of the
category, it can be one of the
Decathlon of the category.
The range of gamma.
I am the one who has the most range, the
one who has it all in some way.
This is a way of being different.
It is a different way to be different,
at a price.
I always say that low
price positioning doesn't make sense,
that's not positioning,
because there will always be someone
who can say that it's more economical
than you, there can always
be someone who is more efficient
than you, but instead
for high price you can
say it.
I don't know if you remember the most expensive
turret, it's one way to say, “Hey,
I'm the most expensive in the world.”
This is somehow related
to quality.
I was talking about
this at home because it
seems absolutely brilliant.
I have no idea if it is the most expensive,
I have no idea if it is good,
I don't know.
I know that's all in
our heads and you position
it as a high quality
product.
As for what you said about
low-price positioning, and this
link to something we've learned
from Michael Porter's generic
strategies, is that there is
no price leader, there is a
cost leader.
That is, if you for your economy of
scale are IKEA and you manage to be
the leader in cost, great, because
you will develop a competitive
advantage, you have a strength.
But it's not a matter of positioning
yourself as the cheapest, because that'
s a nonsense.
Well, it's not a nonsense, but
it's easily copied.
Zara, for example, what is it?
Zara is in some way a very effective
brand.
It is a very good quality, price and
design ratio.
And obviously it is probably the
most cost effective.
Same as McDonald's.
But it is not moving you
a price brand positioning.
None of the two brands are moving
you that.
You are being moved by something
else, much more aspirational, much
more enriching, much more empathic,
much richer.
That doesn't mean you don't have the
ability to innovate or that you don'
t have the ability to empathize
and to generate and adapt to
customers, as has other brands.
You have to work your position,
your position.
Another possible way is
the exclusive sale of English
crude, exclusive sale in pharmacies,
exclusive sale...
The only one that is not selling is the
one that is not selling online.
No, it's that one way to move
exclusivity right now is to
go to counter-current,
isn't it?
The counter current is usually a good
idea to look for the competitive difference.
It is counter-current.
Exclusivity, scarcity is clearly
something that is perceived from
the customer's point of view
as something of more value.
The other way is the specialist, in
front of those brands that have
everything.
I am, for example, on the panel.
My brand works unique
and exclusively panel rackets.
Who is the specialist?
The one who sells sports shoes,
the one who sells chandels, the one
who sells balls, the one who sells tennis
rackets, the one who sells panel
rackets, or the one who sells
only panel rackets?
Who will you trust most?
I remember an experience, I don't know
if you remember the case of Amena.
Amena was very new, first of all
by name, because she bet on a color,
clearly green, she bet on a much
more fresh type of communication,
because she bet on a different
audience, which were the young
people in the end.
And, of course, that big bet achieved
a market share, scratching market
quotas to those who then had it, which
was Movistar on the one hand and
Vodafone on the other.
But, of course, when Amena wanted
to go to sell to the companies,
it cost her a lot, of course
it cost her a lot, because she had
done a good practice
of brand positioning, had chosen
a segment and, of course, if you
go to the shopping manager and
say, man, the
brand my son uses will not be
the brand that will be good for
my company.
Of course he sold in the world of
the company, but it cost them much
more, because they had found a hole,
a niche of the market, a big bet
for a different communication, fresh,
bet for a color, a different man,
who found an empathy with a segment
that was not identified with
the brand that was of
their parents, nor the brand
that did not come to them in a
clear way, did not generate that
relationship, did not generate,
did not that engagement,
that link with them.
I always say that whoever wants to be
everything in everyone's mind ends up
being nothing in the majority's mind.
actually is.
and perfect.
I will give you a look at what you have
already told us to finish.
You have given us a number of tips that
are really valuable and that allow
you to create a very powerful brand.
If you can or try always, I would
say no, if you can, try always
to create a category and be the
first.
Kleenex is an example.
There is another way to differentiate,
to create a powerful brand, is
to differentiate by the degree of amplitude.
For I enter this market or compete
in all product ranges, which
also allows you to target more
increases of customers,
of the catrone and what, etc.
You can position yourself for high price,
1880 I think is the most expensive turrone
in the world.
and correct.
You can seek exclusivity, scarcity,
and so on.
You said another that is, you can go
to counter-current and we have
not made it a lot, but if you do
things, if you do everything different
from the others, we have checked
it on some occasions, it will
allow you to create a powerful brand.
Different from others, at least
it will allow you to differentiate.
Almost as a value in the company, I'
ll do it differently but all differently
from my competitors.
If they use the distribution
channels, I will use others,
if they communicate.
And finally, you said one that is positioning
yourself as a brand specialist
in something, that we have linked
it with Michael Porter's focus,
segmentation or niche
strategy.
And if you can't, because your environment,
your sector and your competitive
situation is tremendously complicated
and does not give you any of the alternatives,
at least you have a very differentiated
communication.
There are brands that differ
precisely for that, by a radically
different visual identity,
by a radically different
packaging, by a provocative
communication.
It is a way.
You are moving your essence, your
personality, your values, in
some way, into the way you communicate.
I will finish with an example, which
I will talk to him because I want
him to come and tell us soon.
A Spanish businessman in China
identifies that in the lineals of
supermarkets, etc., the bottles of
wine are all indifferent,
as it happens, it is very difficult
to differentiate.
And it also identifies that
the West are aspirational there.
He decides to create a brand with
his name, David Wine, he will
tell us, in which his face appears
on the bottles.
That has brought him a success, a brutal
thing in a market, imagine yourself
like the Chinese.
And it's just what you're saying, it'
s all the rest not, because you haven'
t created a brand, you haven'
t positioned yourself by price, etc.,
and you can't use all of what you
said, you can't use them in that
particular case, but what you'
ve done is a communication
so different that it has allowed
you to create a very powerful brand.